Add documentation for deploying prometheus service monitor using Helm (#4398)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/logging-and-monitoring/prometheus-servicemonitor.md

                                ---

> title: Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Prometheus and ServiceMonitor
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> description: "Exposing Prometheus metrics using ServiceMonitor."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "This document describes how to expose Prometheus metrics using ServiceMonitor for the F5 NGINX Ingress Controller."
```

weight: 2000
doctypes: [""]
aliases:
- /prometheus-servicemonitor/
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-614"
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br>

```

> This document demonstrates deploying a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` resource as part of an NGINX Ingress Controller Helm deployment.
> The `ServiceMonitor` resource will describe the target `Service` to be monitored by a `Prometheus` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page describes how to use Helm with NGINX Ingress Controller to deploy a Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` resource, using it to monitor a target `Service` with the `Prometheus` resource.
```

> # Preface
> This document does **NOT** configure or deploy a `Prometheus` resource or a Prometheus Operator.
> For details on deploying a Prometheus Operator, as well as deploying/configuring a `Prometheus` resource, see the [getting-started](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/user-guides/getting-started/) guide in the prometheus-operator docs.
> 
> 
> # Prerequisites
> Install the latest ServiceMonitor CRD from the [prometheus-operator](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator) repo:
> ```console
> LATEST=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/releases/latest | jq -cr .tag_name)
> curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/$LATEST/example/prometheus-operator-crd/monitoring.coreos.com_servicemonitors.yaml | kubectl create -f -
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
* A working [Prometheus resource or Prometheus Operator](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/user-guides/getting-started/)
* The latest ServiceMonitor CRD from the [prometheus-operator](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator) repository:
```shell
LATEST=$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/releases/latest | jq -cr .tag_name)
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/$LATEST/example/prometheus-operator-crd/monitoring.coreos.com_servicemonitors.yaml | kubectl create -f -
```
```

> # Install
> To configure a `ServiceMonitor` resource with your Helm to installation, set the following paramaters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
To configure a `ServiceMonitor` resource with your existing Helm installation, set the following parameters:
```

```shell
--set prometheus.service.create=true
--set prometheus.serviceMonitor.create=true
--set prometheus.serviceMonitor.labels.<your_custom_label_key>="<your_custom_label_value>"
```

> This will deploy:
> 1. A `Service` to expose prometheus metrics from the Ingress Controller on port `9113`.
> 2. A `ServiceMonitor` resource configured to monitor the service exposing the metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These changes will:
1. Create a  `Service` to expose Prometheus metrics from NGINX Ingress Controller on port `9113`.
2. Create a `ServiceMonitor` resource configured to monitor the Service exposing the metrics.
```

Reviewer: The very first instance of any NGINX product name on any documentation page is supposed to include the F5 prefix for legal branding purposes. I've been lazy about suggesting or enforcing it for a while, but the change is being made across the entire documentation set at the moment.

We also avoid 'the Ingress Controller': in context it's usually "the NGINX Ingress Controller" or "an NGINX Ingress Controller instance".

> NOTE: The value of `prometheus.serviceMonitor.labels` can be set to any value that you wish to use.
> The value of this label **must** match the value of `serviceMonitorSelector.matchLabels` in your `Prometheus` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} The parameter for `prometheus.serviceMonitor.labels` can be set to any custom value, but it **must** match the value of `serviceMonitorSelector.matchLabels` in your `Prometheus` resource. {{< /note >}} 
```

> # Example YAMLs
> The below YAML files are examples of what resources are deployed.
> These YAML files are used to visualise what these configurations look like after deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example YAML Files
```

I think the fact they are labelled examples is sufficient: there is no need to explain what an example actually is or indicates.

> ## Example ServiceMonitor and Service YAML
> 
> Example `ServiceMonitor` resource YAML:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example ServiceMonitor and Service YAML
**`ServiceMonitor` Example**:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    your_custom_label_key: your_custom_label_value
  name: <you-release>-nginx-ingress-controller
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      service: nginx-ingress-prometheus-service # Matches on the label set by the Service.
  endpoints:
  - port: prometheus # Matches on the `name` of the port set by the Service.
```

> Example `Service` resource YAML:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`Service` Example**:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    service: nginx-ingress-prometheus-service
  name: <your-release>-nginx-ingress-prometheus-service
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  clusterIP: None
  ports:
    - name: prometheus
      port: 9113
      protocol: TCP
      targetPort: 9113
```

> ## Example Prometheus resource YAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example Prometheus YAML
```

> If you have a `Prometheus` resource deployed capture the `ServiceMonitor` resource, the YAML of that file will look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a  `Prometheus` resource to capture the `ServiceMonitor` resource, the YAML will look like the following:
```
